- author: phil
- tag: scribble
- tag: on work
- date: 2022-01-27
- time: 9:50AM MST

I've been thinking about how to make the studio sustainable. And I guess for now
by sustainable what I mean is "financially supports the workers" and for now by
"the workers" I mean myself.

Obviously the studio has to produce to survive. Nobody is (financially)
interested in cool stuff we work on unless it is fun for them to play with. And
that means being a bit practical with certain aspects of the project and design.
It'd be great to spend the next 8 years learning and working on a bespoke engine,
for example, but there won't be enough money coming in to actually spend 8 years
on it.

Less obvious is that to be really fun it's paramount to keep learning new stuff.
It's not fun for me to repeat the same work over and over and it's not fun for
players to play the same game over and over.

So it's a balance. I need to regularly release games (parable of the pots) and
the best way to do that is using well worn tools. At the same time I need to
push myself deeper and deeper into all aspects of the design, spending possibly
lots of time on things that may not materialize in direct financial ways.

Right now I'm thinking that the best strategy is to approach it in cycles. I
have a few ideas for how the cycles could work and I'm not sure which might be
better.

The first is taken from \log(0011,Re:work). The idea here is an on/off schedule.
Something like 6 weeks of effort towards turning out games and 2 weeks of play
time.

The second is to go all in on a project until it is completed and then switch.
So after completing a game, determine a research goal and only go back to games
after accomplishing the goal.

The third is to do a bit of each every day. Mornings dedicated towards publishing
and afternoons dedicated towards R&D.

I think the first method is by far the best. In the third method there is too
much temptation to drop working on the game early to go back to play if the
research is a lot of fun. The second method is a lot better, but the cycles
could take years for some games and it's hard to know when research is "done"
since you don't normally "finish" research.

The first method I think is where I'll start. I'm not sure about the exact ratio
of time between work and research but the ~80/20 (75/25) ratio sounds reasonable.
I see two key benefits to this approach. The first is that it's always 100% clear
what I should be working on: either a game or research period. The second is that
it enables interesting divergencies to possibly be incorporated back into the game
when it makes a lot of sense.
