- author: phil
- tag: scribble
- tag: log
- cycle: 1
- box: 1
- date: 2022-02-19
- time: 09:20PM MST

More bone and weight work today. Tomorrow will be adding in the control points
(which is actually just more bones) so that the game can focus on a few control
areas rather than having to deal with all of the bones of the animations. This
type of thinking and experience is exactly why tutorials are so valuable. I can
absolutely picture myself thoughtlessly interacting with individual bones in a
game script for too long before coming upon this bone-control abstraction.

I've always been a fan of going through tutorials even after developing a
definitive circle of competence around some area. I remember when I played
Roller Coaster Tycoon 2 as a kid I would do the tutorial on a semi regular basis.
Although that was a bit extreme, in retrospect I think the weirder thing was how
none of my friends or family ever bothered to do the tutorial at all.

I think that learning is hard and provides almost no immediate value. The
incentives are all wrong for it to be the default choice in some bell curve. At
the same time, some subjects are so vastly complex that it would be impossible
to just "skip the tutorial".

The result is that folks will do the bare minimum learning required to start,
which is great. It's what I'm about to do in FindTheOwl and it's a beautiful
aspect of democratized knowledge. The trouble is that because the love of
learning and curiosity isn't present (many believe it's dampened in school) for
whatever reason, they never go back to the books, tutorials, and other resources
to strengthen what they know.

My workflow needs to incorporate constant training. I should go through all the
tutorials and resources that I've done, and do others by different authors with
a variety of workflows. Explore the circle of competence, maybe even grow it a
little bit. To do otherwise is to die intellectually.

I'm grateful that I've never struggled with that part of the human condition --
and I haven't the faintest why it's easier for me. Sorry to anyone looking for
a quick answer on how to be more curious! (Would anyone who needs help on how
to be more curious be reading these dev log scribbles anyways?)
