- author: phil
- tag: scribble
- tag: log
- cycle: 1
- box: 1
- date: 2022-03-10
- time: 09:24PM MST

Today I got a lot more of the owl done. I'm still really liking this one. Is
there potential for redo 3? Sure! But this one is good enough to bring into the
first iteration of the actual game.

Emily and I had some new ideas for making this game a bit more fun for both the
parent and the kid:

1. There would be multiple levels
2. There would be a marco-polo style hoot mechanism that reloads to help you
   find the mama owl. (You play as the child owl.)
3. Each level would be set in a nighttime environment
4. There would be collectable threads of various colours to find on each level.
   Finding each thread starts by finding a large clock tower of a certain color.
   These would be fairly large so that it's not too frustrating for the kids to
   find them. Flying through the top of the clock tower attunes the owl to the
   thread (possibly via goggles or something silly) and makes the hoot mechanism
   work with the thread.
   Collecting threads adds them to the nest when you find the mama owl.
5. The level selection screen would show the progress by showing how many threads
   you have found and whether or not you've found the mama owl. This could be
   shown by adding colored light behind an image of a moon. In front of the moon
   would be a silhouette of the baby and mama cuddling if you've found the mama.

We'll see how it plays when we get there, but I'm liking the new direction (or
maybe I should say that I'm liking having any direction at all!).

On the business side, where should we put these games for children? I think they
belong in their own studio since some of the other themes I'd like to eventually
explore are a bit darker. We tossed around a few names for the children's studio
but right now my favorite is Studio Gumbal. Oliver refers to little chocolate
candies as "gumbles" which is really adorable and it sounds nice. Perhaps it
ought to be Studio Gumble..except then the spelling is the same as Barney Gumble
from The Simpsons which is not the image I want to bring up (and frankly forgot
about before searching if there was another "studio gumble" anywhere). 
